Hi.
We didn't this lecture we going to see how to create users have to manage users using far your base.
So we're past boring stuff creating user interface and everything now.
We're going to learn the real deal with five your base in order to do that.
We gonna have to go back to our dashboard and go to authentication module.
Every time we use a module we have to initialize it just for once.
OK.
So click here to set sign it signing and sign up methods.
And as you can see we have various methods over here.
We're going to choose the email and password.
So this is the most basic one but this is the most used one as well.
So I'm going to say enabled and then save.
And that's it.
That's all you have to do.
Just you initialize the authentication module then we can go back to our code and start writing code
to start creating users.
So in the database out into storage we're going to do the same thing initialize for the first time and
just one time.
But we're going to do that later on.
So in the view controller we have our assigning click and sign up clicked methods functions right.
So in this sign up clicked we have to start with signing up because that's where we register a naive
user without having a user we cannot sign them.
And first we have to sign them up.
So how do we sign up a user.
Of course we going to use Firebase modules firebase classes in order to use that you have to come over
here as a import firebase base and in the sign up click.
I'm going to call this off.
So this is the authentication class for firebase apps.
And as you can see it shows up in the description as well.
We're going to use this class in order to create an authentication method in five your base.
Maybe you will have to call this firebase auth as well.
Before we had to do it this way we have to call firebase end on base authentication but now we don't
have to do that they just combined it in the file your base.
But for a reason if you cannot see us maybe you will have to come back and say import firebase auth
as well.
And here for the second thing I'm going to call these off the small off.
OK.
So this is the instance of the old class.
So this is kind of creating the object out of all the class.
And if you say create user you will see this option create usable with email password and the completion
block.
And that's exactly what we are looking for.
We're going to provide an e-mail and a password.
It will give us a completion block in return.
OK.
So how are we going to get this e-mail we are going to say e-mail text that text and I can put these
exclamation points in here because I can't force to wrap this and in the password tax that text will
give us the password.
Right.
So are we going to give the email and password to the user.
Of course before we do that we can check to see if e-mail and password is actually not an empty string.
Right.
Because if the user gives us an empty string we don't want to create anything for him.
We really want an e-mail and a password.
So I'm going to check to see if e-mail dot text is not equal to an empty string and password that tax
password tax law tax is not equal to an empty string as well.
I'm going to open and close this parentheses curly braces I mean I'm going to cut everything in the
authentication method I'm passing in here and else I'm going to display an alert message to the user
saying that you have to give me some password or you have to give me some user name.
So let me do that quick because you know how to do that right.
You say Let's alert UI alert controller title will be error message will be maybe username and password
missing or something.
OK.
So you can write whatever you want in the message and preferred style hit enter and say dot alerts.
And next thing we have to create and button here.
So I'm going to say OK button this is going to be a UI Elliott action as you might remember.
So title will be OK.
And sale will be default or cancel and we don't need any handler.
And later on I'm going to add this to my alert saying that Eller doubt add action.
OK button and fight for the final thing I wouldn't say soft dog present.
I'm going to present the alert.
We've done animation and without any completions.
So that's what we have been doing so far in order to create alerts.
And in here it will give us our results.
So this is kind of a closure and it gives back and completion block for us.
We have seen that before right.
We give some inputs and we get some outputs as a result in here.
And this is the old theater data result an error so you can call this old state our data and you can
call the error error.
So of course you can choose whatever name you want in here but I'm going to go for some explicit names
like all data and error.
Now I will begin to check if error is not nil because if the error is not nil then it means that I cannot
even get an au theta where I couldn't create that user for some reason in order to get this error.
You can just say errors out localized description and in this block actually error is not nil.
We have to display an alert message to the user as well.
And this time error message will come from the fire base.
We're not even going to bother writing any error messages in here firebase will take care of that for
us.
And in Aus we are going to perform a Segway.
Why.
Because we have created the user.
Now we want to go to the feed we have controller right.
So I'm going to say to feed we see and send there will be nil.
And I believe we can copy and paste is alert to the error message in here.
And since we can have so much error messages we can just create an error message function for us as
well and we have some kind of thinking here error message.
We have to say South Park perform Segway because we are enclosure.
Remember enclosures we have to add this SDK up thing.
So rather than copying and pasting this I'm going to create another function here saying make Ellard
I'm going to cut everything in here and paste everything.
So whenever I called his make killer it will call it for me.
So I'm going to take an input of title and message as string because I'm going to pass these parameters
to here.
I don't need any third one so I'm going to come over here on a title and in order to avoid any confusion
I'm going to call this title inputs and message input.
So a title will be title input and the message will be message inputs.
We have done this before so you might remember right from the essential spark the beginning of discourse
actually.
So in the make Ellard I'm going to say error and the user name and password missing here but in the
above block above us we have the error from the fire base itself.
So I'm going to say make Elliot and title can be error but message input is coming from this error this
time.
OK so I'm going to say error dots localized description.
So this will give us a description that the user can actually understand and this will give us an error
saying that you how to define a default value here.
In case this error gets nil.
So this is an optional as you can see I'm not going to force our wrap this in this way because the error
can come nil for some reason I don't know what but or some empty string I'm going to provide the default
value.
Even though we are checking to see if is not nil I'm not going to take any chances because this is way
too easy to implement.
You just say to double call the question marks an error and asked us to say self doubt make Ellard because
we are in a closure so far so good.
This way we can actually create the users and we can see if they get created or not because we will
perform a Segway.
And of course we can go back to the firebase and check the authentication module to see if the users
created or not.
So here if I say sign up it will say user name and password missing.
OK as you can see this got called and let me just write an email address in here like James at a Metallica
dot com and for password let me give one two three or one.
So if I say sign up it will give me an error and this time this is the firebase there as you can see
it says that password must be at least six characters.
So this is the rule for firebase.
It has to be six characters or more.
So we are getting the error message from the firebase as well.
So far so good.
So let me do one two three four five six.
And here we go we are inside of our feed and we can reach to other Tap Bar controllers as well.
So let me go to users tab in the authentication module.
And here we go.
We see James said Metallica dot com.
We see the user unique I.D. This is kind of our you you idea.
But it's created with five your basis for faraway base actually a size this value to us and we see the
creation dates and signing in date as well.
So that's how we create users using five your base.
And of course it's not enough for us because we have to learn how to sign them in as well.
Let's do that in the next lecture.